---
layout: post
title: "Remotely Operated Legal Frameworks"
date: 2015-02-27
image: privateer-logo.png 
tags: Drones, Backdoors, Legal Frameworks
---
At a [New America Foundation conference](http://www.newamerica.org/new-america/cybersecurity-for-a-new-america/) about information security, which took place on Monday 2015/02/23, NSA Director Mike Rogers took to the stage to try and sell the tech community at large on the idea that we should add in software backdoors to our products to allow for authorized government surveillance.  However, Director Rogers did not want to use the phrase backdoor since he considers that phrase ["kind of shady"](https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2015/02/eff-nsa-if-rule-law-important-start-acting-it).  Uses of Newspeak aside he wants the community to consider his and the FBI's requests not to focus on the flaws this would add to software products and cryptographic systems but on the legal framework which will be put in place to allow only the, capital G, "Good Guys" to harness these backdoors for official use.  

The problem with requesting that creators of products and systems intentionally add a backdoor, is that computers will do whatever you tell them to do.  A backdoor will open for anyone who has the key: Good Guy operating within a legal framework,  Good Guy operating without a legal framework, Bad Guy who has compromised the Good Guy's systems, or a 3rd party who figured out the way in.  Regardless of Intelligence Community abuses/activities which have been revealed recently, there have been previous examples of unknown 3rd parties utilizing backdoors added for lawful interception within the [Greek](http://spectrum.ieee.org/telecom/security/the-athens-affair) and [Italian](http://www.theregister.co.uk/2008/04/14/telecom_italia_spying_probe_update) cell phone systems.  There are not all that many cell phone companies in a country and they can have issues securing their backdoor, imagine the security consequences which could arise if every app in the iTunes and Google Play Store or website is required to provide this functionality.  

What if for a moment that we want to accept the NSA Director's assertion and have a discussion about the efficacy of creating these systems and not the technology which would enbale them.  Consider his another of his comments from the [New America Foundation Conference](http://justsecurity.org/20304/transcript-nsa-director-mike-rogers-vs-yahoo-encryption-doors/)
<pre>
My position is — hey look, I think that we’re lying that this isn’t technically feasible. Now, it needs to be done within a framework. I’m the first to acknowledge that. You don’t want the FBI and you don’t want the NSA unilaterally deciding, so, what are we going to access and what are we not going to access? That shouldn’t be for us. I just believe that this is achievable. We’ll have to work our way through it. And I’m the first to acknowledge there are international implications. I think we can work our way through this.
</pre>
I have not developed a legal framework in my career, and I'm grateful for that.  However, I assume that it is complex, takes a lot of money and should be highly focused on solving a problem.  Is there an area which meets this criteria that has been in the news in the recent past, perhaps, the [US planning to allow the export of armed drones] (http://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-31523207).  Since the US use of Drones isn't completely public and without criticism is adding members to the armed drone club the best idea?  As a public we're told not to worry because, "among the requirements for sale would be an agreement requiring the recipient to use drones in accordance with international law and to not use the aircraft 'to conduct unlawful surveillance or use unlawful force against their domestic populations'." However, once you sell a weapon to another person or country ensuring that they comply with this requirement might be a bit of an issue.  I'm sure that the US government trusts the allies they are going to sell these platforms to but wouldn't having a backdoor, or legal framework to which kept US access to the system be a great way to verify their compliance.

The NSA Director believes that a legal framework can be created for use on commercial products which use encryption, read all of them, and has [smart staff at NSA](http://www.cato.org/blog/what-nsa-director-mike-rogers-doesnt-get-about-encryption) who are giving guidance to him that there are technical ways to implement this.  I don't doubt the technical prowess of cryptographers at NSA and a great test of their skills would be the creation of a legal framework which can be applied to all US exports of armed drones.  With these skills, plus the money and resources of the military contractors who want to sell this technology I'm sure the creation of a legal framework is imminent.  Since the NSA Director is confident that these criteria will not cripple the technology which has these constrains added to its security model I'm sure our allies will still be lining up to purchase our armed drone technology knowing the US government will only use these legal frameworks to verify their compliance with the terms of sale.
